This codebase is subject to CC-BY-4.0 (see **\LICENSE.md**) and updated from Version v1 of the original Zenodo source code at https://zenodo.org/records/15377656.

Credit to authors of SwitchQNet:

Zhang, H. (2025). SwitchQNet: Optimizing Distributed Quantum Computing for Quantum Data Centers with Switch Networks. Zenodo. https://doi.org/10.1145/3695053.3731046

# Requirements
[networkx](https://networkx.org/),[matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/)  

```python
pip install networkx[default]
pip install matplotlib
```
# usage
## scheduler
Firstly, import the `Scheduler` class from `Scheduling_v1_1.py`:

```python
from Scheduling_v1_1 import Scheduler
```

Then you can run the scheduler by:

```python
s=Scheduler(connG,DAG)
time_schedule,cross_pair,in_pair,post_in_pair,cross_wait_time,in_wait_time,retry_ntotal_step,schedule_result_list=s.run(look_ahead=True,join_map=True,split=True,ahead_split=True)
```

Explanation for all init parameters: The type of all parameters is `int` and should be greater than 0, unless
otherwise stated.

- `connG`: networkx graph. This parameter represents the graph showing the topology of the real network.
    - **Node Fields**:
        - `is_router`: A boolean value indicating whether the node represents a QPU or a router.
        - `state`: A list of integers where, for in-rack routers, the number of BSMs (Bidirectional Signal Messages) is equal to the length of the state list. Each element `state[i]` represents the occupy end time of the i-th BSM. Initially, all values should be set to 0.
    - **Edge Fields**:
        - `state`: A list of integers where, for fabrics, the number of fabric connections is equal to the length of the state list. Each element `state[i]` represents the occupy end time of the i-th fabric connection. Initially, all values should be set to 0.
- `DAG`: networkx DAG. This parameter represents a directed acyclic graph (DAG) showing dependencies for EPR-pairs.
    - **Node Fields**:
        - `info`: A tuple `(int, int)` where the first position indicates the source communication QPU and the second position indicates the destination communication QPU.
        - `is_teleport`: A boolean value indicating whether the EPR is a teleport EPR or a cat EPR. If it is a teleport EPR, the teleport direction is from `info[0]` to `info[1]`.
- `commqbit_num`: Communication qubits number in each QPU.
- `cache_size`: int, should be no less than `commqbit_num`. Cache size (including communication qubits) used by the scheduler.
- `reserve_size`: should be greater than or equal to 0. Part in the cache that is only used to generate 'front EPR'.
- `schedu_depth`:  The maximum layer number to lookahead in EPR dependencies DAG.
- `inter_time`:  in standard unit time. Relative inter-EPR pair generation time compared to `switch_time` and `exter_time`. 
- `switch_time`:  in standard unit time. Relative switch time compared to `inter_time` and `exter_time`.
- `exter_time`:  in standard unit time. Relative cross-EPR pair generation time compared to `inter_time` and `switch_time`.
- `split_mul`: When splitting a cross-EPR pair, how many pairs should be used to generate an inter-EPR pair caused by splitting via distillation.
- `shoot_num`: Maximum number of snapshots to keep.
- `shoot_gap`: in standard unit time, the gap between two consecutive snapshots.
- `retry_length`: in standard unit time, the length to use the basic algorithm for scheduling before resuming the normal optimized algorithm.
- `retry_length_mul`: The ratio by which to increase `retry_length` when a retry fails.
- `check_CAT_sTP`: bool, whether to check if the CAT and source of the teleport QPU meet the `split reserve` requirements. For more details, see our paper.
- `check_dTP`: bool, whether to check if the destination of the teleport QPU meets the `split reserve` requirements. For more details, see our paper.

Explanation for all run() parameters: The type of all parameters is `bool`.

- `look_ahead`: Whether to look ahead in EPR dependencies DAG.
- `join_map`: Whether to combine same in-rack EPR generations.
- `split`: Whether to split busy cross-rack EPR into not busy cross-rack EPR + in-rack EPR.
- `ahead_split`: Whether to split cross-rack EPR that are not in the front layer in the EPR dependencies DAG.

Explanation for all run() returns: The type of all parameters is `int` and greater than 0, unless otherwise stated.
- `t`: In standard unit time, last EPR pair's end time.
- `cross_pair`: Cross-rack EPR pair number.
- `inter_pair`: In-rack EPR pair number.
- `distill_pair`: The number of in-rack EPR pairs generated by splitting (after distillation).
- `cross_EPR_cache_time`: In standard unit time, the total time that cross-rack EPRs spend in cache after generation (including split ones).
- `inter_EPR_cache_time`: In standard unit time, the total time that in-rack EPRs spend in cache after generation (including split ones).
- `retry_num`: Number of retries performed. 0 means no retry was performed.
- `total_step`: In standard unit time, the total unit time looked by the scheduler. Without retries, it should be equal to `t`, so it's greater than or equal to `t`.
- `schedule_result_list`: List of schedule results. Each element in the list represents an EPR pair with format
`[pair type, origin pair, mapped pair, start time, end time]`.
    - `pair_type`: str, (C,T) $\times$ (O,S), like CS. (C,T) means the original pair is a cat or teleport, and (O,S) means the pair is an original pair or generated by splitting.
    - `origin_pair`: The original pair in the EPR dependencies DAG node's info field.
    - `mapped_pair`: Without splitting, it equals the origin pair. With splitting, it represents the actual split pairs.
    - `start_time`: The communication start time for the mapped pair.
    - `end_time`: The communication end time for the mapped pair.

## run_full_test

Use `python run_full_test.py` to run nearly all the tests. `kwargs['prefix']` indicates the test name being run. `father_dir` is the directory to save the test results. Remember to change `p = Pool(...)` number to fit your computer's multiprocessing capability.